---
title: "An ode to the local hardware store (and other small businesses and community institutions for that matter)"
date: 2025-10-24
categories: blog
---

First, allow me to express my sincere apology for the gap in time between my last posts. A lot has happened since my last post! I accepted and began a position as an Assistant Professor in the Marquette University Department of Political Science, which led to my wife Kim and I relocating to Milwaukee. This is both a move back home for me, but also a move to a new home for the both of us, one that has fortunately gone really well. We became homeowners and have really enjoyed getting to know our neighbors, making new friends, and getting to see family more regularly. It’s truly been a blessing – that’s the best way I can describe it.

The new job has been very rewarding, but also extraordinarily busy, hence my delay in writing new posts. As you can see, I’ve revamped the blog. It’s now integrated into my personal website for two reasons: (1) a few of you mentioned that you were not receiving email notifications from Wordpress when I published a new post and (2) I figured that I might as well incorporate this writing into my other work since it’s all related. I’ve uploaded the original posts from my old Wordpress site for those interested in engaging with those. 

One last piece of housekeeping before I return to my regular content: I’ve come to terms with the fact that I am going to be perennially short on time for the foreseeable future. This is a situation that I’m sure many of you can identify with. This being the case, I’m going to focus on writing short, monthly reflections as opposed to long-form posts. This will be a challenge for me since I’m, how shall I say, not known for my brevity, but it’s the only realistic way I can keep this going and I think it’s more likely to be read given our busy lives and decreasing attention spans that I have previously lamented. 

Right, now, to the content. The title of this post may seem to come out of left field but bear with me - it connects to the overall theme of us living more meaningful and connected lives. I mentioned that Kim and I recently became homeowners. That came with some home repairs, which included a garbage disposal that needed replacing. After some encouragement and a 20-minute YouTube video, I convinced myself that I could successfully install a new one. 

Well, as you might imagine, things didn’t exactly go as planned. I completed about 95% of the job before encountering a piping attachment that, for reasons that will forever be a mystery, would not loosen. I decided to saw off the piece and just replace it with a new one, only to find out that there is a seemingly infinite variety of pipe fittings out there. Days of Google searches and Copilot conversations ensued, only to send me further down an unsuccessful wild goose chase for this pipe piece. 

When I had reached my wits end, I decided at Kim’s suggestion to just talk with someone at the local hardware store. Keep in mind that I had visited this hardware store probably 3-4 times in the past few days to get basic supplies, but I hadn’t really asked anyone for advice. This time, I explained my issue and pleaded for some guidance. A member of the staff suggested a fix that I had previously written off as too complicated but, in my desperation, I decided to give it a try. This fix worked like a charm and would have saved me a lot of time and money had I just started with the friendly hardware store staff down the street. 

How strange, I reflected, that I was so quick to ask a robot for advice because it was seemingly more convenient at the time than consult with a human who was ready and willing to assist. My reasoning in the moment – why spend 15 minutes to walk down the street (30 minutes round-trip) to maybe not get an answer when I could just get an answer on my phone in seconds? –  revealed two mistakes. 

One, I greatly misjudged the cumulative time that my approach would take and made comparisons assuming that the robot in my phone would actually give me the right answer. 

Two, and more importantly, it reveals a mistake I think we all make all too often – we value the quick and efficient approach but greatly misjudge what we lose in the process. The costs of my example (I actually wasted more time and money relying on technology over communal assistance) are obvious, but I think a lot of times, the costs we bear by increasingly relying on technology are less obvious. You can watch a game from the comfort of your home, but you’ll miss out on the communal joy or commiseration that comes with watching it at your local restaurant or pub. You can order takeout or delivery with such ease these days that you do not actually have to say a word to anyone throughout the transaction, but you’ll also be much more likely to forget that a human – a likely underpaid and overworked human at that – is even involved in this transaction. You can buy virtually everything you need (and don’t need) on Amazon or some other online retailer, but you’ll miss out on interactions with vendors or fellow customers at nearby small businesses and put the sheer existence of those small businesses in jeopardy. This undermines the important third spaces that give people opportunities to interact and spend time with one another and make our communities interesting places worth visiting. Bottom line, our reliance on technology entails trade-offs. I believe that we have failed to fully appreciate what we are trading off when we surrender more of our lives to technology. 

How doubly strange that I fell victim to these mistakes despite my public skepticism of us relying too much on technology, especially social media. This experience reminded me that despite our preaching, we can so easily fall into the same traps that we warn others about. So, in addition to this being an ode to the local small business and third space, this post is also an ode to us keeping each other accountable. Put down your phone and support your community institutions and make sure I do the same. And if you find yourself in the Milwaukee area, pay Bliffert Lumber and Hardware a visit – they will hook you up!





